# TGF-software
The terrain gravity field (TGF) is a new MATLAB-based software suitable for calculations of gravity forward modelling in the spatial domain. It is capable of calculating 1) various gravity field functionals, generated by some arbitrary-shaped 3D geometries together with mass-density distributions, in 2) different spectral band-widths, including high-frequency gravity modelling (also known as residual terrain modelling or RTM) and full-banded modelling where a full topographic mass-model is used as input, 3) through a combination of four different types of elementary mass-elements, i.e., polyhedron, prism, tesseroid and point masses. The TGF works in two modes, in interactive mode with GUI interface and in batch mode without the GUI interface which allows rather easy modification and adaption of the code for scientific studies.

The interface of the TGF software is divided into four modules depending on various functions, i.e., the input of computation points, definition of the mass distributions, specification to the functionals and computation zones, and output files.

The computation point information is located and read by pressing the pushbutton ‘Computation Point’ in the panel of ’Computation Points’. The computation file is defined in binary format with vector for   - number of points, latitude, longitude and height respectively. 

The ’Forward Mass’ module specifies the input file to define the topographic masses, via the geometric upper and lower boundaries and density values. The detailed DEMs (pushbuttons – ‘DetailedDEM’ and ‘DetailedREF’) define geometric boundaries of masses in the vicinity of computation point, which are approximated by polyhedron and prism. DEMs loaded via the pushbuttons -- ’TESSDEM’ and ’TESSREF’ -- define the far zone masses which are modelled by tesseroid.  ‘CoarseDEM’ and ‘CoarseREF’ specify the coarse DEMs which are required for point-mass modeling. When working with a model of spatially-varying mass-densities, three 2D horizontal density grids are required for respective integration zones. Elevation and density data are in binary format of vector ‘[minphi manphi resphi minlam maxlam reslam elevation]’, minimum, maximum and resolution of DEM grid in latitude and longitude directions.

The module ‘Gravitational Field’ defines parameters which specify the type of gravity functionals, integration zones and earth approximation type. 

The ‘Output’ module allows to define the output file and to convert file in grid format to binary file. In the bottom right corner, the status of the calculation will be shown in blue texts. 
